
LTCG (Long Termm Capital Gain)--> if person holds shares more than one year, and earns profit it is known as LTCG.

Dividend:--> return on investment in shares. It is depends on company decision.
Promoter is the person who starts the company(investors).

Face value: price of share value at the time of company establishment. it is decided by promoters at that time itself.
Issue price: price of share when the promotors try to sell to the public at first time.i.e IPO price
List price: price of share on share market(NSE/BSE)

Top line value: Turnover of the company for the year.

profits will be the amount which is available after removing the expenses.

Bottom line value: profit after tax

Stocks split: To make more transfer of shares, we can do stock split.
	When we perform stock split,Face value will be halved,and shares purchased will be doubled and market price of share value will be halved/might be decreased based on the requiremnt for more transfer of shares.
	
							before stock split 			After stock split
	Face Value 						2							1
  holding shares					500							1000
  share value in market				100							50
  Total invested money				500x100						1000x50
 
Day-2 :
LTP(Latest Tradedc Price): it is the price of share sold/purchsed at the market time.

Pre opening market session: it is a 15 mins session starts from 9AM to 9:15 AM to absorb the fluctuations when the market opens. 

After Market Orders(AMO): we can place orders but they will execute when market opens.

Gap up opening:if share price opens at a price higher than the previous day close market,it is called gap up opening

Gap down opening:if share price opens at a price lower than the previous day close market,it is called gap down opening
volume:no.shares traded on a specific day

Bonus: if the bonus ratio is 1:2 means we get 1 bonus/free share if we holding 2 shares.

Announcement date: the date on which company announces the bonus/split etc.

Record date: the date on which we must have shares on out demat account.

Ex-bonus date: The date on which shares start trading with revised prices. **So we must purchase shares before this date.

Stock exchange: it is a platform where investors can buy/sell their shares.(NSE/BSE)

Members: we cannot sell the shares directly in the stock market. we have to sell/buy them through members.(Angel broking/zerodha)

Investors:the people who are selling/buying the shares. there are types:
	1.	RII: Retail Individual Investors like common public. investment should be <= 2lakh
	2.  HNI: High Networth Individuals  investment should be > 2lakh
	3.  DII: Domestic institutional investors
	4.  FII/FPI: Foreign institutional investors/Foreign portfolio investors

Issuers: the people who issues shares like companies(patanjali,britania,L&T)

Depositories: they will convert the physical shares to de-materialized share(electronic share).(NSDL and CDSL)

Depository participant: we will open account through this persons in depositoriess