types of data collection:
1.population: the data whcih is collected from all people is called population and the values comes from population is called "parameters"
2.sample:it si subset of population and the numbers which we have colelcted from sample is called "statistics"

just consider the example of people in college:
1.population:collecting the data from all the people in college(online,distance students,part time students)

2.sample: collecting the data from some of them who represents all the people


characteristics of sample data:
1.randomness:it is a group or set chosen in a random manner from a larger population.(some random people has to be choose from large group)
2.representive:it is a group or set chosen from a larger statistical population according to specified characteristics.(the chosen people will represnt whole large population)

classifications of data:
1.based on type
2. based on measurement levels.

based on type:
1.categorical, 2.numercial

1.categorical data: it is like data has benn collected in groups. like if we have a car, we have purchased it from specific brand. or yes/no questions.
2.numercial data will be continuous data(time) and descretre value(salary)

based on measurement level:
1.qualitative data, 2.quantitative data

qualitative data: it has 2 types of data 
A. nominal data: which means the data can be separated into groups which does not have order.example weather seasons
B. Ordinal data: which means the data have value in between some ranges. example customer feedback from not satisfied to fully satisfied

quantitative data> it also have 2 types
A. interval: An interval scale is one where there is order and the difference between two values is meaningful. here we dont have a real zero value(0). example  credit score (300-850).

B.ratio: but it will have true zero value example dose amount.


we can present the categorical data in iamges in below forms:
1.Frequence distribution tables
2.bar charts
3.pie charts
4.pareto diagrams



measures of central tendency:
1.mean--> average value
2.median--> center value 
3.mode --> frequency of the values i.e. which value more times occured we will considered.

measure of asymmetry:
1.skewness: right/positive skew(mean> median),no/equal skew(mean=median) and left/negative skew (mean<median) here skew means which side values are not high


measures of variability: 
population variance = (sum of squares of (value-avg))/total values
sample variance = (sum of squares of (value-avg))/(total values-1)
sample variance > population variance 